>> Anjana Vakil: Okay, when we come to
reduce,
>> Anjana Vakil: It might be kind of mean
of me to make you implement this cuz it's
hard enough to use a reduce function.
So what we're gonna do is just read
through this implementation of the reduce
function, but
then we're going to implement,
instead of reduce itself, we're gonna
implement some reducer functions.
Cuz this is kinda the tricky part,
if you ask me, about working with reduce.
And the pattern is really not that
different from what we've seen so far.
We have our base case.
If there's nothing in the array,
then we just return the value,
the first value, the only value.
And that value is gonna be set by
a variable called the initialValue,
which you sometimes might see
written as accumulator or
something like that, or
sometimes abbreviated to acc.
So you might see that a bit, but
I'm just gonna call it initialValue.
And this is gonna be whatever I want to
come back from this reduce operation if,
let's say I give it
a sliced piece of bread and
I'm asking it to reduce me a sandwich,
then I should expect that same
sliced piece of bread out.
But for other things like maybe sum,
I might start out with a different
initialValue, wink, wink.
Okay, so what we're gonna do, we're gonna
take in in reduce the reducer function and
the array, but also that initialValue,
and that's gonna be kind of our toe hold
that we use to do the rest
of the reduction, okay?
All right, so then, if we have zero,
we're done with our base case.
Otherwise we're gonna compute
a new value by applying
the reducer function to
this accumulated value,
accumulator value, excuse me,
which is initialValue here.
Or again, you could imagine renaming
all of these to accumulator or acc.
But we're going to apply the reducer
function to the initialValue and
the first thing in the array, and
that's gonna give us back one value.
And we're gonna save that.
In this case, I've just saved it to a
variable to make it more clear what we're
doing, and we're gonna pass
that in as the initialValue for
our recursive call to reduce.
So it's like we're
updating the accumulator.
We are accumulating values, which is why
we call it an accumulator sometimes,
and we're gonna call
reduce again recursively.
But this time we're gonna pass in the
newInitialValue or the new accumulator,
and the tail of the array.
And recursively,
we're gonna do the whole thing over and
over again until we hit an empty array,
and then we pop back out
with just one value that represents
the entire smushing, if that makes sense.
The whole sandwich in our example.
So the trick to using
reducers then becomes
the reducer functions
that we pass to them.
So let's take a moment to fill
out the sum and max functions.
Both of these are going to
use our function reduce,
which is already implemented for you.
And they're gonna take
in an initial value,
which you have to figure
out what it should be.
It's not undefined, probably.
[LAUGH] And
it's gonna take in our array, and
it's going to make one value out of
this array that is what we expect.
So in sum, it should be, if we give it
an array of numbers, it should add all of
those numbers together and
give me the sum of all of those numbers.
And for max, if we give it an array,
I want it to return the largest
value in that array, right?
So if I give it an array of numbers,
I want it to return the highest number.
So we're just gonna assume we're
only working with integers and
numbers here, cool?
Okay, you got this.
>> Anjana Vakil: Let's start with sum.
>> Anjana Vakil: Okay, so we said
a reducer function has a certain shape,
which I've just reminded you of in
this little blue call-out here.
>> Anjana Vakil: It takes the accumulator
value, or the initialValue here,
and then the,
>> Anjana Vakil: Array value we
want to be accumulating into that
accumulator, if that makes sense.
So essentially, we're gonna have
function signatures that look like here,
just a way that you often
see it is accumulator value
goes to some kind of something,
some kind of value.
Well, yeah, now let's think about if we're
given an array where we've just got,
let's say, a whole bunch of
the rest of the sum already, and
we have a new value that's
come up in our array.
To keep accumulating the sum,
I'm gonna use?
>> Speaker 2: Addition.
>> Anjana Vakil: Addition,
so I'm going to return
my fat arrow, accumulator plus value.
Oop, I called it v, let's see now, yeah?
Now we need to fix the initial value and
start off with the sum of
an empty array would be?
>> Speaker 3: Zero.
>> Anjana Vakil: Snake eyes or
something, okay?
[LAUGH] No, that's once, never mind, okay?
[LAUGH] So sum, it seems to be passing.
Max is failing, cool.
All right, questions?
So this is why we're often working with
reducers like, what is the reducer I need?
And that's what we're practicing here.
All right, let's do one more, max.
So same function signature,
we're gonna have an accumulator and
the value, or the initialValue and
a new value to accumulate.
And this time,
instead of adding them together,
I want to return cuz I
wanna get the highest
[LAUGH] value from the accumulator or
the value?
>> Anjana Vakil: Can anyone
help me make that happen?
>> Speaker 4: We probably want a ternary
declaring accumulator and value.
>> Anjana Vakil: We're
gonna need some comparing.
Okay, let's think through.
So we're gonna ask ourselves,
is the value bigger than
my previously biggest
value which is gonna be
stored in the accumulator?
And if so?
>> Speaker 5: Return the value.
>> Anjana Vakil: Then the accumulator
is going to become, or
the new accumulator value is gonna
become value cuz it's bigger.
And if not?
[INAUDIBLE]
>> Anjana Vakil: Yes, and small gotcha,
because of JavaScript, yeah?
>> Speaker 6: It's starting
with undefined, so
you want to put a number
there to be the max.
So if there is no accumulator,
you need to set it to the value.
>> Anjana Vakil: Okay, right, so
if we have undefined in here, and
probably, if I'm asking you for
the max, and
I don't have a lot of comparisons to make,
that's legit.
So we wanna make sure
to handle that case of,
what if the value is undefined or
the accumulator is undefined?
So in that case, it's gonna start getting
a little harder to read here, but
you'll often see sometimes ternary split
over multiple lines like this, right?
So we're just gonna keep doing this, and
we're going to kind of nest another
little ternary in here, and
we're going to test if we're
returning the accumulator.
Let's double check that
it's not undefined, yeah?
So if it's undefined,
>> Anjana Vakil: Then
we will return-
>> Speaker 7: Value?
>> Anjana Vakil: Value, cuz actually,
even though JavaScript thinks that
[LAUGH] it's not the case that,
I don't know, a five is, well, maybe if
we wrote it the other way, it would be.
But anyway, it's undefined,
it messes with us.
We're just gonna handle this specifically.
And if not,
then we'll return the accumulator.
Feel reasonable?
>> Speaker 7: We could just set it up in
the base case on top too where it's if
not acc or value is greater than acc,
>> Anjana Vakil: Right, so
we could also, sorry, if-
>> Speaker 7: Yeah, rather than-
>> Anjana Vakil: Right,
we could test the equals
equals could go up here.
There's a few different ways
we could nest this, all good.
But in principle,
does this seem reasonable?
So yeah, so
sometimes these little reducers,
even though they're very tiny functions,
can be a little bit of like a?
So this is the fun that we get to have.
But the thing is that it's really nice to
be able to not care about how many things
you have in your array when you're trying
to compute a single value out of that
array, and
the accumulator is how we do that.
Because it's a function,
it's pure functional programming,
so we don't have state.
We can't just remember max value seen so
far between different
calls to the function.
We don't wanna do that kind
of stateful programming.
So instead,
we turn what we need to remember into
data that we then manipulate as needed
to keep remembering what we need to.
So this is kind of a principle we're
gonna come back to later in the course
is that if we're used to using state
as a way of remembering values and
remembering data and
where we're at in an operation.
For example,
what the value of i is in my for
loop is a way of remembering how far I am
through all of the loops I need to go.
In functional programming, what we will be
ending up doing is taking whatever we need
to remember and making it an input of
the function, making it a value itself.
Not something that's part of the program
that could maybe be different than
I thought it was, but just a single value.
So if I know I'm getting that value in,
I know what result to expect
instead of needing to look at
the program state to figure it out.